# Master-Thesis-Hybrid-Power-Plants

Important first step before operating the model is to download the sandia toolbox which can be downloaded using this link: https://pvpmc.sandia.gov/PVLIB_Matlab_Help/


# To use the model of the hybrid power plant (HPP)
Open the HybridPowerPlant_calculations.m file.
First the location specific resource data should be adjusted in lines: 28-34. 
Next the location's longitude and latitude needs to be changed in lines: 42-43.
If desired, the a different solar module can be plugged in. The data of the datasheet needs to be added in lines: 50-60.
The orientation of the modules is now flat on the surface. The tilt angle and azimuth can be changed in lines: 63-64.
The cost variables can be changed in lines: 66-91, if desired.

Lines: 6-8, show the amount of solar modules, kites, and loss of load. This can be adjusted to find the optimal configuration of the HPP. 
Lines: 18-19, indicate whether the loss of load is really lost or generated by the diesel generators, and whether the system is in a micro-grid or grid-connected.


# To use the optimizer of the HPP
To make use of the optimizer first a function of the HybridPowerPlant_calculations.m file needs to be made. 
This is done by uncommenting line 4 and 751.
Next, comment lines 6-8.
Now, open the HPP_Optimizer.m file.
Set a range for the number of modules, kites and loss of load in lines: 6-8.
Run the script and the optimizer will calculate the LCoE of all the different combinations of the number of modules, kites and loss of load.
The optimal LCoE and corresponding system configuration is given in the workspace.
